
General

The tempo markings often differ significantly between the piano reduction and
the full score and parts. The PR may have been done later than the score/parts,
and may represent the composer's final thoughts. I am currently biased towards
the PR, but trying to blend the two in a way that makes sense when needed. Edits
related to this are marked #TEMPO.

Dynamics are not always consistent. It is often difficult, when reading the
parts, to differentiate between what was originally written by the copyist
and what was a bit of markup by the performer. The score is often lacking
any clues. Edits related to this are marked #DYNAMICS.

The string divisi sections are complicated. I generally want to use a rule of
"what's in the score and in the part match up", but sometimes it clearly makes
more sense to compress the divisi, as in the MS full score, but write them in
separate staves for the player in the part. Playing this one by ear for now.
What makes this more fun is I can only "backfill" divisi lines with unison sections
in both by doing the compilation, noting where line/page breaks are, and using
that as a guide. Would be cool if that could be automated.

Movement I

m. 2: Horn I (score/part) has different rhythm than piano reduction.
(I-piano-reduction)

m. 5: The PR has "con moto" here. The parts have "moderato con moto" at m. 16.
The score has what *might* be a scribbled "con moto" at m. 5, and a stronger
"con moto" at m. 16 which might have been scratched out. #TEMPO
(I-common)

m. 6: Flutes I/II have an odd crescendo difference. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-01-flutes)

m. 6: Clarinet II has hairpins I lacks. Give them to I as well. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 6: Horns III and IV have different dynamics in part (mf and f), but same in score.
#DYNAMICS
(I-orch-06-horns)

m. 7: Clarinet II has a decrescendo that I lacks, and is in the score. Give it to I as well.
#DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 10: The dynamics for this bar on Flutes, Oboes, Clarinets, Bassoons are kind of a mess.
Score looks like FF for everbody. Flute parts show FFF, oboe/clarinet/bassoon parts show FFFF,
and I'm not sure if these are markups or work of the copyist. I think they should be consistent,
though. Sticking with score; FF for all. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-01-flutes, I-orch-02-oboes, I-orch-03-clarinets, I-orch-04-bassoons)

m. 10: The oboe parts all give the second half of the rhythm X8. X16. The score
oddly has X8 X8 for the first and second, and X8. X16 for the third and fourth.
That's pretty clearly a mistake in the score. But it does make me wonder: the other
instruments playing this rhythm (flute I/II, clarinet I/II has X8 R16 X16 instead.
Should I make the oboes consistent with the others (and the piano reduction)? Doing
that for now, but willing to reconsider.
(I-orch-02-oboes)

m. 12: Piccolo FFF in part, F in score. FFF could be copyist. Sticking with score,
as I have for measure 10.
#DYNAMICS
(I-orch-01-flutes)

m. 12: Oboes I/I FF in score, FFF in part, but FFF could be copyist. Sticking with FFF
for now; if I revisit this one, should do it in conjunction with other dynamics in
measures 10 and 12. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-02-oboes)

m. 12: Horns V/VI have first FF then FFF in the part. Only FF may have backing in
score, but looks like copyist. Keeping for now.
(I-orch-06-horns)

m. 16: Flute I has mf scratched out and replaced with F in both score and part.
Seems official to me. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-01-flutes)

m. 19: put the "pocu piu/rit" in every part? Some parts have it under the rest.
Some don't.
(I-common)

mm. 21-23: Solo piano, 2PR, same notes but different transition points for
clefs. Bad idea? Regularize like FS to match MM 21?
(I-solo-piano)

m. 21 and 23: Clarinet and oboe solos have mf in score and (originally) parts, but
parts had it scratched out and replaced with f. Sticking with mf for now. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-02-oboes, I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 25: Clarinets I and III have mf in score like everyone else, player replaced with mp.
Sticking with original. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 25: Tempo discrepancy. PR is "Appassionata, ma molto sostenuto" and the
score and parts are just "Appasionata". #TEMPO
(I-common)

mm. 25-28: There are a bunch of crescendo/decrescendo bits in Violin I/II which
aren't in the score. I can't tell yet if these are from the copyist or were added
by players. I've got them in the Cellos, and at least some of them look real.
Adding them to all string parts. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-09-violins-viola)

mm. 25-28: And for that matter, note the flute and oboe are both playing into
those same string parts...the flute has hairpins, and the oboe does not. Flute
hairpins aren't quite aligned with the string ones, either. Either both should
have them or neither. Thinking it over.
(I-orch-01-flutes, I-orch-02-oboes)

m. 27: Viola slurring different from all their neighbors. Adjusting to match.
(I-orch-09-violins-viola)

m. 29: Oboes have fff in the parts, f in the score. I think the fff is something
written in by the performer. Sticking with score dynamic for now. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-02-oboes)

m. 29: Bassoons I and II are in unison, but whoever copied the parts put I in tenor
clef and II in bass clef. Absent a compelling reason, I'm just keeping both in tenor.
(I-orch-04-bassoons)

mm. 29-38: Violas bar layout inconsistent between score and parts. Parts break up,
score doesn't. Sticking with score for now.
(I-orch-09-violins-viola)

mm. 29-38: There are a bunch of crescendo/decrescendo bits in all the string parts
which aren't in the score. I can't tell yet if these are from the copyist or were
added by players. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-09-violins-viola I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 35: Solo piano lower staff; unconvinced the bottom a-sharp on the second beat
of m. 35 is correct in the PR. Full score is a bit smudgy here but doesn't show
an accidental. Also doesn't match m. 37 which otherwise repeats the pattern. Going
with the pattern and following the full score.
(I-solo-piano)

m. 36 and 38: Oboes and bassoons have the "half-broken beam" in the score. The bassoons
have it in the parts. The oboes do not; changing them to match the score.
(I-orch-02-oboes, I-orch-04-bassoons)

m. 36 and 38:  Also interesting is that the bassoons and the oboes slur differently in
these measures.In practice, it amounts to the same thing (why push a slur over a tie?
It gets "slurred" anyway). Can't use the score as a tiebreaker because the score doesn't
have the slurs at all. Leaving them inconsistent for now.
(I-orch-02-oboes, I-orch-04-bassoons)

m. 39: Bottom staff of solo piano has an obvious error in the PR, missing a bass clef
transistion. It's there in the full score. Fixed.
(I-solo-piano)

mm. 39-53: The articulation patterns start out clearly in score and parts; we have
accented beats, and everything else is staccato. The score stops writing them after
three bars, but the various parts continue. Some parts, like bassoons and first
clarinet, start losing them in m. 50...but the score, at least for bassoons
and flutes, seems to still have the staccato notes. Trumpet and Horn parts keep
them as well.
This almost certainly should be made consistent. As editor, my vote is to just
keep them for everyone for now.
Crescendos in this section are sometimes not consistent; I've regularized this in
what I think is a reasonable way. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-*)

m. 44: Clarinets get a > on their final note of the phrase; oboes do not. Score hasn't
had the > for several measures, despite them being in the parts, so can't use it as a
tiebreaker. Bassoons have them too. Tympani doesn't, though. Viola part is missing the
articulations entirely. Should make this consistent, but in what direction?
(I-orch-*)

m. 45: Placement of the "cresc." is a bit odd. PR places it squarely in beat 3; the score
seems to suggest 2 or 2-1/2, and the parts show either 2 or 3 depending on how you read
them. I'm sticking with 2 for the orchestra, but leaving at 3 in the piano for now.
Will probably revisit.
(I-solo-piano)

mm. 50-54: Trumpet III/IV parts show them playing in unison (almost) throughout. Score
seems to suggest that it starts as trumpet III only with IV added at some point. Following
the parts.
(I-orch-05-trumpets)

m. 52: Cello part and score do not match. Cello score repeats m. 51, but part copies the bass
line. I think this was an error by the copyist. Using the score pattern.
(I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 53: The parts which have a FFF on beat 1 omit it on beat 3, except for Tympani.
Perhaps make tympani consistent with everbody else here?
(I-orch-08-tympani)

mm. 55-62: The orchestra parts, playing in unison, don't have consistent handling of either
the dynamic hairpins (throughout) or some of the slurs at the end of measures (mm. 59-62).
For the former, several examples: a decrecendo for the bass in 55 that no one else has,
a crescendo in strings in 58 missing from the clarinets, a decrescendo in 59 that's not
starting from the same place in all parts (and missing from cello). Score not helpful;
there might be faint traces of hairpins but I can't tell. Bringing them into a consistent
state for now. As for the slurs, clarinets and cellos have them, and the viola has one.
They make musical sense. Adding them to everybody. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets, I-orch-04-bassoons, I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

mm. 55-58: Solo piano right hand PR has inconsistent handling of the ottavas between
measures 55 and 57. Same notes, just different cutoff point. Score does it like 55 both times
(although amusingly the actual ottava line is missing). My repeat structure copies 55's
handling in both cases, but 57's seems a little easier on the eye.
(I-solo-piano)

m. 58: The score and piano reduction use a "duplet" figure on the third beat, but most
of the parts just print that as a pair of dotted eighth notes.
(I-orch-03-clarinets, I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 58: PR doesn't repeat the "stuttering beams" that are in m. 56. Score does.
I don't see any reason not to.
(I-solo-piano)

m. 60: The solo piano in the PR doesn't have the continuing ties in the left hand middle voice,
but it's clearly there in the score. Fixed.
(I-solo-piano)

mm. 60-62: Again, the ottava is handled differently in PR, same in score.
(I-solo-piano)

mm. 60-62: The hairpins stop here in score and parts. Speculation: should I continue
adding them according to the pattern? Next mark is the "piu dim" in 63. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets, I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 63: Beat 2, the clarinet part has broken bars, and so do score lower strings, but
lower string parts don't. It's pretty much free for me, so I'll do it.
Also...do I want to add slurs to the second beat for low strings, matching clarinets?
Listen to the recording, see if I can hear slurring.
(I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 64-69: Dynamics all over the place. I've copied various hairpins from parts. Needs
attention. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 70-73: The score and parts ask Tympani I (a-e) to field a b-flat here, which the player
seems to have balked at; they scratched out the "e-flat to b-flat" directive from the
copyist.
(I-orch-08-tympani)

m. 84 and 86: The horn parts and score indicate a simple triplet on the first beat, but it looks
like there might have been white-out involved there. The PR plays a X8 X8 R16 X16 on both beats.
Recording is straight triplets. Allowing the discrepancy to stand for now, but might want to adjust
this in PR as well.
(I-orch-06-horns, I-piano-reduction)


m. 91: Clarinet I/I lack starting dynamic, III/IV has p. Nothing in score. Giving dynamic
to all. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 93: Clarinets lack dynamics in this bar that appear to be in score, plus basoons. Adding
them in. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-03-clarinets)

m. 91 and 93: Full score shows crescendos for all the strings in 91, but only for Violin I in 93.
It seems strange that the other string parts would be expected to just jump from mp to ff, so
adding them to other strings as well. In fact, since the strings are playing in accord, it makes
the most sense to harmonize everybody across this section.
(I-orch-09-violins-viola, I-orch-10-cello-bass)

m. 94: Dynamics are f for all wind parts except for Bassoon IV, whose part could be either f or ff.
Score clearly gives a strong ff in m. 92, but is silent in 94 except for what might be pencilled in
f on the bassoons, and strong f in the horns. Making it consistent F for winds/brass. #DYNAMICS
(I-orch-*)

mm. 95-97: The second beat ^ articulations are again inconsistent. Score gives them to everbody
in 95, bassoons/horns only in 96, and nobody in 97. Violin II is missing in part entirely, so
adding at least the ^ in 95. For now, leaving everything else as score and parts have it.
(I-orch-*)

m. 101: The piano reduction ends the bar with d-flat; the english horn solo it's following has 
d-natural in both score and part. Adjusting reduction to match.
(I-piano-reduction)
