Movement I

m. 28: Piano reduction. Initial rest placement completely wrong. Changed but still needs work.

m. 29: Piano reduction. mergeDifferentlyHeadedOn only half-working.

m. 53: Violin II.  Don't like the g to the left of the f#. Should go other way.

m. 54: Piano reduction. Need to break up obnoxious "c and c#" chord like PR.

m. 55-62: Solo piano. Lower hand is a bit of a mess, needs tweaking.

m. 58: Clarinets have the tuplet bracket missing in score, probably due to colliding
with the Solo text. Maybe force tupletdown in score.

m. 69: Solo piano. Lilypond trying too hard with those quarter rests. Adjust placement?

m. 82-90: Solo piano. The tuplet brackets have a tendency to run up against accidentals
when things get tight. They probably need to be adjusted. The trick is, whether this is
true or not depends on how much horizontal squeeze there is. So the necessary tweak may
be different for score and PR, and may even be different if I change paper sizes. Should
only come back here once the whole movement is done.
Also in this same passage, the lower staff sometimes places the quintuplet figures
to the left of the whole notes, which is not what the PR does. I'm not sure if it's
worth changing, though.

m. 82-89: Flutes and Clarinets. Everybody gets the tuplet bracket eaten by PartCombine for
no obvious reason. I may have found a novel way to break it. (also, only use ottava for flute
2 in score, not part.)

m. 98-99: Piano reduction. Quarter rests too high. Switch it so that voiceOne is tranparent
and voiceTwo is printed?

m. 105: Bassoon III. Part prints fine. Score has the tuplet bracket end too soon. Lilypond bug?

m. 105: Bass line in this measure has rests too low because of the way I had to construct the
tuplet. Bump them back up to the center.

m. 113-121: Solo piano. Have to force stems up, because if the stems converge in the middle like
in the PR, lilypond does not put enough space between the staves for things to work. I prefer
the PR version. Look into prying apart the staves.

mm. 116-117 and 119-120: Flute I, missing/broken bracket on first figure. Also, nothing I can
do seems to persuade partcombine to put the stems down, which would make this less ugly.

m. 118 and 121: Clarinet III is missing tuplet bracket in score. Seems to be a problem similar
to the one in m. 58, above.

m. 134-141: Piano reduction needs markings showing right hand is optional.

m. 141: Grace notes at end of bar for flutes should be outside the bracket, but tricky to do.
Also, partcombine is not honoring the manual bar marks for flute II in the score. Part is fine.

m. 165-169: Solo piano has staves too close together to handle the cross-staff figures. Need
to force it to open up. Score too.

m. 224-225: Clarinets I and II combine badly in the score. Need to figure out a way to bring that
r32 into line.

m. 226-232: In piano reduction, tweak the ties so they don't clutter things up.

m. 233: Trying to use LV as a cheat rather than tie across voices in PR, but tweak is not working.

m. 233-235: In solo piano, lilypond strugges with tuplet bracket placing. Needs hand-tuning.

m. 236: Oboes I/II awkward in score. Forcing "Solo I" breaks the crescendo. Find better solution.
(Probably involves ending crescendo in bar.) Bassoons III/IV also a bit off in 236 and 238.

m. 240-243: Viola and Cello slurs are too tight on some of the triplets.

m. 244 and 246: Solo piano, push staves apart a bit to allow the bracket to be on the opposite
side from the slur?

m. 268-271: Bassoon III/IV slurs should go up farther, possibly in score, definitely in parts.

m. 270: The part combine on Trumpets I/II and III/IV in the score breaks the second set of barred
notes for some reason. Parts look fine.

m. 272-280: Part combiner not producing great results for Trombone III/Tuba.

m. 281-290: Solo piano is suffering multiple problems. Dynamic mark smushed, tuplet numbers not in
good places.

m. 304 and 306: middle C in solo lower staff in these bars is getting squished in score. Fine in PR.

mm. 328-329: Bass upper 7 bracket clashes with tremolo mark. Ditch upper bracket entirely?

Movement II

m. 24: Piano reduction. Left hand parenthesize doesn't work, for no clear reason.

m. 26-27: Piano reduction. Need the ties to disappear under the other notes in the upper staff. Manual
suggests some overrides to do this, but can't seem to make it work in early testing.

m. 33, 35, 37, 39: Piano reduction. Silencing some of the inner rests in the lower staff to avoid
crowding. If I could shift rests to the right, could have separate rests for each voice, but is
it worth the trouble? What I have seems straightforwardly readable enough.

m. 40-41: Solo piano. Top staff; PR has the longeer notes on the left, and lilypond defaults to them
being on the right. Worth fighting to change it?

m. 46-49: Solo piano. Did some work to declutter ties but not enough; need to figure out the best
way to do this. Also, pp in dynamic track rides way too high for no clear reason.

m. 50-53: Piano reduction. Like solo piano in 46-49, need to continue work on the ties.

m. 54: Piano reduction. Need to make the inner voices a single chord which crosses staves.

m. 55: Solo piano. ppp rides too high/left.

m. 63-65: Piano reduction. Ties make this a mess; may need to third staff this one if I can't figure
out a way to shuffle things around.

m. 70: Solo piano: don't want to break out a middle staff, but need to do something to make this look better.

m. 73: Trombone I/II part combining is doing something not quite right in the last eighth note. The trombones
are playing b and bes respectively, but the combination looks like it's only b. The second eighth note is
better; two accidentals. And the flip between chord and apart voicing looks awkward since it reverses the
note positions in m. 74. Haven't had much luck finding a good compromise here.

m. 110: Piano reduction middle staff ends kind of awkwardly. May not be much to do about that, though.

m. 111: Solo piano has to break up the septuplet since I can't tie across voices. There has got to be a
way I can make it look like the PR.

Movement III

m. 1-14: The way the PR is written is difficult to reproduce in lilypond. Just putting the same notes in a
more default layout. Should revisit to see if I can make it work.

mm. 60-67: Writing the lower solo part a bit differently than the score to dodge the "ties across voices" problem.

m. 70 and 72: Solo piano combines the stems on the lower staff. Need to figure out how to imitate.

mm. 74-76: Piano reduction: imitating the PR gets something just as smooshed. This needs to be done better.

m. 74: In score, trumpet III/IV should be marked "solo IV", just like I/II is marked "Solo II". Not sure why different
treatment here.

mm. 96-103: Piano reduction lower staff should parenthesize every other downbeat chord, but it's not doing it, Why?

mm. 104-111: Violin I part shows my flat/sharp trill constructs don't play nice with ottava lines. I've never been entirely
satisfied with them anyway. Need to rework them.

mm. 118-121: Too many notes in the solo piano; I've had to shrink them to illegibility in order to fit onto the page.
I need a better way; I might be able to apply it to earlier sections as well, if I can figure one out. Also, the
grace notes in the PR disrupt the flow of the solo part.

m. 132: Piano reduction renders the middle quarter note oddly; they should stack on top of each other like the PR,
but they don't.
